Transition service groups to a persistent data store (comparable to the service endpoints store) (#481)
hyperledger-labs/private-data-objects: client/docs/service_groups.md

* `export` : export service group definitions to a file
* `list` : list service groups of a service type
* `info` : provide detailed information about a group

### Enclave Service Groups

The `pdo-eservice` command provides operations to create, delete and
modify groups of enclave services. In addition to a list of services,
`eservice` groups include a preferred service that serves as a default
location for operating on the contract. If the preferred service is
`random`, then a different `eservice` will be chosen for each
operation.

* `create` : create a new service group
* `create_from_site` : create a new service group using all of the services in a site file
* `delete` : remove a service group from the database
* `add` : add services to the service group
* `remove` : remove services from the service group
* `set` : replace the current list of services with a new list
* `use` : select a service for the preferred service

### Provisioning Service Groups

The `pdo-pservice` command provides operations to create, delete and
modify groups of provisioning services. Provisioning service groups do
not have any additional policies.

* `create` : create a new service group

> * `create_from_site` : create a new service group using all of the services in a site file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `create_from_site` : add all of the services in a site file to a service group, creating it if it does not yet exist
```

* `delete` : remove a service group from the database
* `add` : add services to the service group
* `remove` : remove services from the service group
* `set` : replace the current list of services with a new list

### Storage Service Groups

The `pdo-sservice` command provides operations to create, delete and
modify groups of storage services. Storage service groups have three
additional policy parameters that may be set: `replicas` specifies the
minimum number of replicas required for state, `duration` specifies
the minimum availability duration for each replica, and `persistent`
identifies a storage service where users can expect to find state
after the replication duration has expired.

* `create` : create a new service group

> * `create_from_site` : create a new service group using all of the services in a site file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `create_from_site` : add all of the services in a site file to a service group, creating it if it does not yet exist
```

<!---
Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
--->

# Service Groups #

Service groups provide a means to simplify and reuse specification of
services, resources and policies for creating new contracts.

Contract creation requires specification of enclave, provisioning, and
stoage services; preferred or optimized services; and storage and
replication policies. Rather than provide the information separately
for every contract created, service groups define collections of
services and policies for using those services that can be used to
simplify contract creation.  For example, a service group for testing
and developing new contracts can be created from services provided

> locally. Another group can be defined to for final production

Author: done.

represented by the names or URLs for the services defined in the
service endpoint database). Each type of service group (`eservice`,
`pservice`, and `sservice`) has additional unique attributes that
describe policies that accompany the group. For example, enclave
services have a preferred service that identifies a place more likely
to have contract state pre-cached.

While the name space for each type of service group is independent
(that is, you can have an enclave service group with the same name as
a provisioning service group), for convenience we often use the same
name for groups of different types when we use them together. For
example, we may name enclave, provisioning and storage service groups
`develop` because we always use them together for contract
development.

While groups can be specified for any operation that creates a
contract, if no group is specified, then a group called 'default' will
be used. That group must be created.

**NOTE:** Services included in service groups must be stored in the
service endpoint database (see `pdo-service-db` command). Generally
this means that service endpoint must be added (usually by importing a

> site configuration file) before groups can be created.

Reviewer: For creating and working with local groups and exporting them this makes sense. But is that also true for the `import` command?   In that context it would seem useful to also (help to) update the service-db? Or is that handled at a higher level, e.g., in scripts importing contract bundles? Actually, from further below you seem to expect there is also a corresponding export/import from the endpoint-database: do we have a way to project the export for the end-point db covering just what is needed for this service group (e.g., i might have lots of other endpoints which i might not want to export (e.g., localhost ones would be meaningless)

Author: not sure i understand what you're asking. 1) i should add the check for existing services in the group import operation in the data wrapper (or... i go back and forth on this, the import should just be moved into the command). 2) the endpoint database does have an import/export. import/export is a full database option (unless the merge switch is used on import). 3) i'm not sure why we would need a partial import/export? (the file is just toml so you can easily edit it if you really don't want a bunch of extra stuff in there).

Author: moved the check for database existence into the actual store operation so it should be applied for all adds. there is a new verify() operation on groups that can check to make sure the URLs still exist in the db, but i'm not going to go any further for enforcing data integrity at this time.

Reviewer: The use-case i had in mind (and maybe not intended to be addressed) that user A preparing ontract and as part of that creates this service group. At the point he would convince others, say party B, to join i expected that as part of the contract artifact transported would also be this service group and related end-point information.  Party B already might have some end-points and wants for sure only import end-point info related to the really necessary services, yet Party A's end-point database also might have end-points from development service groups which in best case Party B doesn't want to see and in worst-case might change existing (e.g., localhost) end-points Party B has ?   Hence the "projection" of end-points related to the service group.  Of course this can all be done manually but i thought the point of this here is to make it easier?

Author: the service group is already part of the contract file. look in the .pdo files in ${data}/__contract_cache__

Reviewer: the second part was what where i was heading at ....

Author: Suggest we address that (very good) suggestion in a separate PR.

## Service Groups Data File ##

Service group information is stored in a database file identified by
the configuration variable `Service.GroupDatabaseFile` which defaults
to `${PDO_HOME}/data/groups_db.mdb`. Command line switches allow for
the use of alternative group files.

## Commands for Working with Service Groups ##

### Service Groups: `pdo-service-groups` ###

> The `pdo-service-groups` command provides operations over the collection

Reviewer: afaik we translate these commands to psh-commands by stripping the `pdo-` but here we seem to also convert the `-` between service and groups to a `_` where in create_from_site we already use lower-cases.  Would be good to have a consistent convention, probably best call this here `pdo-service_groups` ?

Author: not really.

that being said... there is a bigger issue across all of PDO for being consistent about use of '-' or '_'. Not going to address this for the time being.

of services in the service groups database.

* `clear` : remove all data from the service database
* `import` : import service group definitions from a file
* `export` : export service group definitions to a file
* `list` : list service groups of a service type

> * `info` : provide detailed information about a group

Reviewer: Given that service-type groups are created/deleted in type-specific commands (see below) i would have expected the list and info commands below, not here ...

Author: this is another that i went back and forth on. the reason is that the service specific update commands are in the service specific files because they each have a unique set of parameters. the list and info look in the database, but the format of input/output is not type dependent.

Reviewer: It's just from a usage perspective, after creating and adding, one would naturaly look for info and list commands at the same place.    But the added friction to go to the other place is far from a showstopper

### Enclave Service Groups

The `pdo-eservice` command provides operations to create, delete and
modify groups of enclave services. In addition to a list of services,
`eservice` groups include a preferred service that serves as a default
location for operating on the contract. If the preferred service is
`random`, then a different `eservice` will be chosen for each
operation.

* `create` : create a new service group

> * `create_from_site` : create a new service group using all of the services in a site file

Reviewer: Wouldn't you want also an equivalent `add_from_site` to an existing group?

Author: that's exactly what this does.

Reviewer: What i meant is `add_from_site_to_existing_group`.  `create_from_site` (according to comment) always creates a new one ...

Reviewer: Ah, looking at code i realize this function does create new group only if it doesn't exist and otherwise uses existed one.  Correspondingly suggest changing the docu to make this more explicit
```suggestion
* `create_from_site` : add all of the services in a site file to a service group, creating it if it does not yet exist
```

* `remove` : remove services from the service group
* `set` : replace the current list of services with a new list
* `use` : select a service for the preferred service

### Provisioning Service Groups

The `pdo-pservice` command provides operations to create, delete and
modify groups of provisioning services. Provisioning service groups do
not have any additional policies.

* `create` : create a new service group
* `create_from_site` : create a new service group using all of the services in a site file
* `delete` : remove a service group from the database
* `add` : add services to the service group
* `remove` : remove services from the service group
* `set` : replace the current list of services with a new list

### Storage Service Groups

The `pdo-sservice` command provides operations to create, delete and
modify groups of storage services. Storage service groups have three
additional policy parameters that may be set: `replicas` specifies the
minimum number of replicas required for state, `duration` specifies
the minimum availability duration for each replica, and `persistent`
identifies a storage service where users can expect to find state

> after the replication duration has expired.

Reviewer: But do we have any machinery in place where such expectation is somewhat justified? I would have expected that for this to really hold i would have to have correspondingly longer expiration time and/or store it on a third-party storage service?  If not, a user could mistakenly believe setting here a storage to `persistent` it would be guaranteed to be persisted which it wouldn't necessarily?

Author: some of this is the preference of the contract creator. however, information is available from every storage service about its expected duration. second, as i said in the document persistence is about expectations, not guarantees. if you want a guarantee of storage then pay for it. this is really (as the document says) about where someone *might* look and expect to find it. note that there does not have to be a persistent service.

Reviewer: but so what is the indended  use of that attribute?

Author: a hint. a suggestion. an informal agreement. a place where we can go look for state.

Reviewer: hmm, still feel that the "peristant" seems to promise more than just the default as in eservice but definitely do not want to fight over it ...
